# Project Solar PV Phase 1

## Status

Pending

## Goal

To establish the capability to keep electronic devices charged at the site for an unlimited period at all times of year.

## Overview

The HQ has a wall facing very roughly South (more like South West). The idea is to use the HQ frame as structure to support a ground mounted solar array. The battery and electronics of an off-grid system will be housed inside HQ, where power oputlets will allow charging electronic devices and lighting.

In future it may be worthwhile constructing a standalone frame in order to orient the array directly to solar South.

## Map

## Steps

- [ ] Finish HQ Phase 1
- [ ] Order kit
- [ ] Order wood
- [ ] Order any missing clamps (I think I have everything I need)
- [ ] Order nuts, bolts and screws
- [ ] Build frame
- [ ] Mount panels
- [ ] Connect up and start charging!

## Blackboard

I'm looking at this: https://www.sunstore.co.uk/product/3660w-48v-11-0kwh-professional-off-grid-solar-system/
- It's 12 panels, if each is 50cm wide that will fit nicely along one side of HQ
- It's got enough battery capacity to (nominally) charge the scooter from flat 5 times! (although that is not a goal of this project.)

- Electric needs to be used at both HQ and barn
    - There isn't a place near HQ that has good sun
    - Therefore maybe set system at barn and transmit power to HQ via wire
        - 160m
        - Losses?
        - High voltage?


## Log

- 05/08/2021: Had the idea in a brainwave!
- ? Asked SunStore to size me up a system but they didn't reply