# Project HQ Phase 1

## Status

Pending

## Goal

To establish the following facilities:

- A sheltered and covered space with
    - A kitchen work surface
    - A large storage shelf
    - A sink with running cold water
    - A dining table with chairs
    - A rocket stove

## Overview

Using scaffolding already on site I will construct a cuboid frame of 6m x 3m x 3m high. I will cover three walls and the roof with tarpaulins.

Along one whole side, a kitchen work surface will be constructed from plywood supported on more scaffolding. The kitchen will be fitted with
a sink and a rocket stove made of four hollow concrete blocks.

The middle of the room will be occupied by a dining table and chairs.

The building will be oriented with the grid, with its North West corner at P74. The open wall will be to the North.

## Map

## Steps

- [x] Conceive idea
- [x] Order missing parts for frame
    - [x] Receive
- [x] Order tarps
    - [x] Receive
- [x] Clear the site
- [x] Mark out the site
- [x] Emplace foundation blocks
    - [x] Place
    - [x] Level
- [x] Erect the frame
- [x] Erect the roof canvas
- [ ] Erect the wall canvas
- [ ] Build the floor
    - [x] Design
    - [x] Order materials
        - [x] Receive
    - [ ] Build
        - [x] Panel 1
        - [ ] Panel 2
        - [ ] Panel 3
        - [ ] Panel 4
        - [ ] Panel 5
        - [ ] Panel 6
        - [ ] Panel 7
        - [ ] Panel 8
        - [ ] Panel 9
- [ ] Build the kitchen
    - [ ] Order the wood
        - [ ] Receive
    - [ ] Cut the wood
    - [ ] Sink cutout
    - [ ] Rocket stove cutout
    - [ ] Assemble
- [ ] Build the rocket stove
    - [ ] Order blocks
    - [ ] Borrow splitter
    - [ ] Buy a hacksaw
    - [ ] Cut right sized bit of 11mm OSB
    - [ ] Score a block and chisel out the bit
    - [ ] Assemble

## Blackboard

Questions for UBuild meeting
- [x] Access without articulated lorry
- [x] fixing to trailer
- [x] collecting rainwater
- [x] glazed door

Requirements

- [ ] boots off, coat up place
- [ ] sleep one couple plus one guest
- [ ] seating for three people at a coffee table
- [ ] desk/standing desk for one person - with a nice view
- [ ] kitchen
    - [ ] gas hob
    - [ ] sink
    - [ ] microwave
    - [ ] storage
        - [ ] pots, cutlery, plates, cups, glasses
        - [ ] food (fridge or external temp)
- [ ] solar
    - [ ] electronics board
    - [ ] battery
    - [ ] panels
- [ ] ventilation
- [ ] wood burner
- [ ] comfortable seat near wood burner with nice view
- [ ] storage
    - [ ] solar battery
    - [ ] firewood
    - [ ] some kind of shower alternative
    - [ ] clothes (quite minimal)
    - [ ] kitchen equipment
    - [ ] food and drink
    - [ ] coats, boots etc
    - [ ] a few books
    - [ ] pens, paper, chargers etc etc
    - [ ] self washing things
    - [ ] house cleaning stuff including a broom

Nice to have
- [ ] outdoor covered area/porch

Don't need
- bathroom
- toilet
- shower

Bath idea: https://www.johnlewis.com/stokke-flexi-bath-x-large-baby-bath-blue/p5492082?sku=239632662&s_ppc=2dx92700070985443024&tmad=c&tmcampid=2&gclsrc=ds&gclsrc=ds


## Log

- 05/08/2021: Had the idea in a brainwave!
- ? Built structure and put of roof
    - Didn't make roof drainage holes yet
    - Huge rainstorm over night
    - Roof canvas full of probably a tonne of water
    - Canvas stretched
    - Frame bent!
    - Structure taken down
- ? Location moved to south west corner
    - Higher altitude for water collection
    - Lovely view
- ? Reconstructed
    - Size halved to 3x6x3
    - Roof configuration changed to not need drainage holes
- ? Decided to add a floor
- ? Bought a petrol generator so I can build stuff on site!
- ? Structure blown off of support blocks! Reassembled
- ? Started fitting floor, found out base is not square
    - Reassembled square
    - Also decided to change roof configuration again
    - New configuration remains untested