# Project HQ Phase 1

## Status

Tentative

## Goal

To establish a dry, insulated, inside space for:

- Sitting by the stove
    - With company
    - With a view
- Sleeping
- Washing?

## Overview

I will build a basic insulated cabin from timber and plywood panels with a flat roof. Outer dimensions roughly 3m x 6m x 3m high.

## Sketchup Model

[Sketchup model](./sketchup/Cabin-2021-2_0.skp)

## Foundations

Foundations are necessary for the following reasons:

- To prevent the building from sinking
- To enable the building base to be leveled
- To prevent the building from sliding sideways due to wind

I believe all three can be accomplished with the following minimal foundation system:

- Six foundation holes, one at each corner and one in the centre of each long side.
- Each hole has
    - Lined with Teram
    - Large stones
    - Gravel
    - Concrete block
        - Top is leveled with other blocks
        - Drilled hole
        - 1cm threaded bar in hole - protruding 5cm - glued
    - Along each long side
        - 10cm x 20cm treated timber beam on its wide side
        - Threaded bars from blocks enter into holes drilled in the beam

## Dealing with Water Vapour

In an insulated building, the air inside is warmer than the air outside. Warmer air carries more water vapour. As air migrates naturally from inside to outside through the walls it cools. As it cools water condenses out of the air and wets the insulation or wall materials. This wetness causes mould and general degradation of the wall. Therefore it is important to prevent this which is done in two main ways:

1. Reduce the amount of air that passes through the walls
2. Enable water vapour within the walls to escape to the outside.

Point 1. is achieved using a so called vapour barrier. This is a membrane or barrier on the inside (warm side) of the wall. It is made of a material that is largely impermeable to water vapour and so prevents warm wet air from the inside from getting into the wall. Often in U.S. buildings the vapour barrier is a polythene sheet. Apparently plywood sheathing on the inside of the frame can also act as a vapour barrier. I like this idea because you get triple use out of the plywood: Structural, vapour barrier and interior finish. The only problem is I think you will need to tape over the joins in the plywood with vapour barrier tape, which might not look nice as a finish. 

Point 2. is achieved using a breathable house wrap. This is a membrane applied on the outside over the insulation. It both prevents water ingress from the outside while at the same time allowing water vapour inside the wall to escape.

**Note** The flat roof is covered in a waterproof membrane. If the membrane is placed directly against the roof without an air gap there there will be no way for water vapour to escape the roof panel. Therefore the roof panel should have house wrap on its upper face, then an air gap and then the roof itself which is a plywood sheet with EDPM glued onto that.

## Door

Here's what I know about fitting a door into a building:

- Rough opening
    - The building has a *rough opening* which is roughly rectangular gap where the door wil go.
    - The opening should be 1cm bigger than the door frame in each dimension
    - The house wrap should be stapled inside the rough opening and taped so that water running down the wrap with not get into the frame
- Present the frame
    - The door frame is offered up to the rough opening by placing the bottom on the bottom and swinging it in
- Fit the frame
    - Make sure the sill at the bottom of the frame extends beyond the edge of the floor so that water does not run onto the floor
    - The door frame is squared up inside the rough opening by using packing shims 
    - Shims are required along all four sides. 
    - There should be at least 2 on each side and three on the hinge side. 
    - Make sure the shims do not coincide with where the hinge screws will go
    - The door frame must be perfectly level and square otherwise the door will not work
- Fix the frame
    - Once the door frame is square use screws through the frame and shims to fix it in place
- Fit handle to door
    - ?
- Fit weather bar to door?
    - This is a piece of wood that goes along the bottom of the door to deflect water way from the sill
- Fit the door
    - Once the frame is fixed the door needs to be fitted into the frame
    - Present door to frame and mark for hinges on the door and frame
    - Cut hinge recesses using a hammer and chisel
        - on door
        - on frame
    - Mount door
    - Mark for striking plate
    - Cut striking plate recess and latch hole
- Seal the frame
    - After the door itself has been fitted the gap around the door frame should be packed with insulation and sealed with silicone/similar 

## Map

## Steps

- [ ] Finish HQ Phase 1
- [ ] Finalize design
- [ ] Install base/supports
- [ ] Order kit
- [ ] Build
- [ ] Move in!

## Blackboard

- This is microwave with rated power of 1000w, so can run on 1200va solar inverter: https://www.amazon.co.uk/Russell-Hobbs-RHM1401B-Manual-Microwave/dp/B082BD1LKZ?keywords=russell%2Bhobbs%2Brhm1401s%2B14l%2B600w&qid=1642339371&s=appliances&sr=1-2&th=1&linkCode=sl1&tag=wwwjackdawinn-21&linkId=b1305354963645da444be3bb847988da&language=en_GB&ref_=as_li_ss_tl
- Current thinking is:
    - Located at south west corner next to HQ phase 1
        - Long side facing north
        - Windows to north for views and east for morning light
    - Roughly 3m x 6m floor area and 3m ceiling height
    - Flat roof
    - Sitting on blocks
    - Made from ground assembled panels of timber, sheathed in plywood
        - Each panel 1220 x 3000 mm to fit ply sheet width
        - Sheathed on the inside
        - Insulated in the middle
        - Breathable house wrap on the outside

    - The cabin will be about 5m x 3m by 2.75m tall.
    - The long side will be oriented North-South
    - It will be located along the West wall inside HQ, closer to the South end
    - It will have one window on its North wall (short wall)
    - There will be a wood burner in front of the window and chairs so that you can look at the stove and the view at the same time
    - The door will be in the middle of itrs East wall, into the main HQ space
    - Its south half will be dedicated to a bed or bunk bed 

## Log

- 05/08/2021: Had the idea in a brainwave!